---
layout: post
title: Separating Content From Style
published: false
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). April 19, 2010, Philly

The modern web is built around the idea that content should be separated from
style. As developers, we learn to write minimalistic html with no style
information other than a few classes. This has big maintainability benefits,
but I want to focus here on a second benefit. Separating content from style
allows you to first focus on what you want to say, then how you want to say it.
This is very important.

A week and a half ago, I gave a talk (TODO: LINK) at Philly ETE on Chef. As
usual, I was stressed the weekend before as I frantically created my talk in
Keynote like a good nerd. Beyond the normal stress of doing things last minute,
I was also increasingly frustrated by what seemed the never ending style battle
my brain was facing. As I laid out new content in keynote, I continually
re-arranged it so that it would look "better". I found myself trying out
different styles more than I did concentrating on what I wanted to tell my
audience. Enter Scott Chacon's Showoff (TODO: LINK).

A few days before my talk preparation hell, my friend Mat (TODO: LINK)
mentioned this hot new presentation framework called Showoff. It lets you write
your slides in markdown (TODO: LINK), which is then translated to html when you
run the application. Better yet, all styling is done in CSS. *This is the
important part*. Showoff separates content from style. It lets me focus on what
I want to say, then how I am going to say it.

Many people these days forget that the heart of what they're doing is
communicating ideas. They focus on style over substance (TODO: Links). People
will eventually see through style and find the substance. Make sure that what
you do has substance. Then add your style. Using Showoff reminded me of this
lesson, and I really appreciate it. Thanks, Scott.
