---
layout: post
title: Crowd Sourcing Business Development
published: true
---

# {{ page.title }}

<p class="meta">October 26, 2010 - Philly</p>

*Update*: The deal below is no longer active. I'm leaving this blog post on the
web though as a matter of historical record.

[Mashion](http://mashion.net), my web development consultancy, will pay you 5%
for introducing us to someone that becomes a client. We will pay you 10% if you
negotiate the contract for us. Occasionally, we'll pay you 15% when we're
looking for work immediately. We charge $150 per hour and average around
30 hours of work per week per developer. Ergo, if you deliver us a four week
contract for two developers, you'll make **$3,600**. For serious.

Email us at [info@mashion.net](mailto:info@mashion.net) with deals and read on for details.

Why It Makes Sense
------------------

Business development takes time, especially when first getting started. In the
first four weeks of Mashion, we've had 3 contracts. Two have lasted a week, and
one was only two days. We've also had a week and a half of downtime in which we
worked on our own projects, while hustling hard to get some more business. As
it stands, it feels like we've spent at least **25%** of our time on business
development. That's a really big cost, and I think we can crowd source it away.

How It Works
------------

Currently, we're paying 5% of the total contract if you bring a potential
customer to us, and they sign a contract within two months. We're paying 10% of
the total contract if you act as a middle man between us and the customer.
You're responsible for negotiating the rate with them and getting them to sign
a contract that we agree upon. You'll get paid when we get paid, and you don't
get paid if we don't get paid.  These terms are subject to change, and we'll
announce all changes either on this blog or on our
[website](http://mashion.net).

Every once in a while, we'll offer a 15% bounty to the first person to bring us
a signed contract that starts immediately. Follow us on twitter to find out
about those times: [@cashion](http://twitter.com/cashion) and
[@matschaffer](http://twitter.com/matschaffer).

If you're a potential client yourself, you can get a 10% discount by showing up
with a contract ready to sign. If we're offering a bounty, you can get a 15% discount
by being the first to sign a contract that starts immediately.

We charge $150 per hour and stay away from fixed-price contracts.

If you've got some work that you want to send our way, email us at
[info@mashion.net](mailto:info@mashion.net). If this post hits number one on
[Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com), we may take a day or two to
respond. Don't worry, we love you for sending us work, and we will *definitely*
write back.

Oh, and if you're a lawyer, please contact us about writing actual contracts
around this business.

About Us
--------

If you've read this far, hopefully you're thinking of bringing us some
business. To do that, you'll need to know a little about what we do.

We're a web development consultancy that specializes in Rails. We're pretty
handy with Javascript and Devops as well. We're Agile, pair program, practice
TDD, love [Cucumber](http://cukes.info), and enjoy teaching. We like to work
closely with our clients to deliver a product that everyone is happy with.

We bill hourly, because we think that fixed price contracts always leave one
side feeling screwed. We have two developers and average 30 hours per week per
developer.

We aren't designers, but we have [one we like](http://thoughtmerchants.com/).

We're really good, and we're proud of it.

